---
author: Roxxi
comments: true
date: 2008-09-10 08:04:13+00:00
layout: post
published: false
slug: no-good
title: No Good
wordpress_id: 28
categories:
- '... the Worst of Times'
---

I'm upset, I'm sad, I'm angry, I'm frustrated, and I'm disappointed- largely all with myself.

For whatever reason, I can't even bring myself to say why. Some of it is that lately I've been sucking at work. Things that should've come easy and gone off without a fix are taking me an embaressing number of times to accomplish. Apparently I'm rude and offensive to people with whom I work with. Apparently I'm slow to finish things. It seems I'm bad at handling situations.

I didn't receive the criticism in any sort of bad manner. It was feed back generated- well the parts that were Criticism- the frustration with projects is only working to further dampen my ego. I've just been feeling really insecure lately in many aspects of my life.

I'm in secure about my friends- meeting so many new people is really hard and tiring. You have to watch every little thing you do, you have to be really receptive to how others react, you can't be "comfortable" with anyone, because you just aren't at that stage. Now that Bryan's moved away, I really don't have anyone who is here who can be that same kind of "in person" solid support. Nathan, bless his heart, has made it more than clear that I can call him anytime I need, but... it's hard to go from talking to someone who's known you for years to someone who is more than willing to listen but just doesn't know you as well yet.

I'm insecure about my job- The project which shall not be named should've been finished months ago. According to some it should've never taken more than a few weeks. People are disappointed in how long it's taking and further, those who are inspecting it are not giving me as favorable of feedback as I would've once liked.  Today, I was told (the circumstances of which shall go unnamed) that I'm too "emotional" at work- unable to stifle frustrations when working with others and how people may or may not have been offended in certain situations was just more than I was ready for right now. (I think the person who told me that really meant "Transparent" but why would anyone want you to supress your feelings when you're happy?) I'm not saying the criticism was wrong, I just got it at the wrong time (partially my own doing, I did, in fact, ask for it). Hearing that on top of the last few weeks frustrations with the bug that JUST WILL NOT DIE (again, today, when things finally started looking clear with it, it sprung up again), then followed up by a project that should've been straight forward having so many random unexplainable issues that constantly impacted other people; both have really shaken my confidence in myself as a programmer. I actually feel a little ashamed of myself because I have known myself, and know myself to be a person who can do better.

I'm insecure about my body- About a month ago when all the stress hit me, I stopped going to the gym. I was bored of all the classes, I was depressed and stressed from relevant things at the time (Bryan moving away, and pressure at work), I just wanted to be self indulgent and lazy.  That- in combination with being gone for so many days- has led to me regressing pretty harshly at the gym. I've actually lost some strength, and I'm definitely not performing at the level I once was. I know I can work back up to it, but, for the time being it's just compounded with all the other stress making me feel worse.

I just think all the mounting stress and pressure is more than I've handled in a while. I really just want someone to sit with me, hold me, and talk it out with me. I really need to be intimate with someone (note: not sexual) who can make me feel supported, explicitly. I know it sounds selfish, but it really is what I'm craving.

Obviously I can't wait for that, and I fully intend to pull myself up by my bootstraps, and keep moving on- but right now it's just a bit more than I can handle and I just need to say it all out so I can see it, and get past it.

I do feel embarrassed about this. And a bit ashamed. But it is what it is.  Ironically, while it's hard to say that I feel embarrassed about it, it's also really cathartic.

I really am embarrassed about myself right now. This certainly isn't the person who I feel I typically am, and for whatever reason, I feel like I've lost sight of myself a bit over the last month.

Maybe it's time for a new beginning. I think I've felt that way for a while. I guess I'm a bit nervous and scared. I just wish I had some support.
