---
author: Roxxi
comments: true
date: 2008-05-12 07:46:25+00:00
layout: post
published: false
slug: break-out
title: Break out!
wordpress_id: 20
---

I have to say, the last two months of my life have been pretty unique. Just about every weekend I've had people to go out with, places to go, things to do. I have to say, it's felt pretty good! For a change, I wasn't getting a majority of my social release through World of Warcraft, which, for the last several years, has provided me with an outlet of being able to talk and interact with people at any time of day.  But, as of late, I've grown tired of investing my time in people that I'll never meet- people that I can't share a bond with beyond playing a game that is debatably fun.  I've been wanting to break this habit. Not the habit of playing WoW, but the habit of not being able to easily get out there and meet people.

Now, you might say, "but Alex, you've been going out all these weekends and nights, meeting people, going places, dating, and what not, aren't you already doing that?"  Yes, I suppose I am, but I've been playing games for almost 10 years. Wow. 10 years. That's kind of scary. I started Everquest the summer of freshman year of high school.  Right after I stopped, I picked up world of warcraft.  Sure there were blocks of time when I wasn't playing for months in a row...

Do I regret spending all that time online?  Partly, yes. I missed out on being out doors, doing physical activity. During college I missed a lot of involvement with Band, with making friends in the dorms, with meeting people, dating, homework.  I didn't learn how to go to bars, to talk to random people, to give myself opportunities to meet all sorts of people. I only figured it out at the end, that I was missing all that, and tried to change it. But it was too late, everyone starting moving away. I missed my chance.

Now, I've moved out here, and the first few months, knowing almost no one was really hard for me. I need to feel part of something, need to be social with people. There was the drug again, right there, ready to go. My gateway to a group. And I took it.  It was winter, going outside was cold, I just wanted to sleep all the time anyway.

Now... the sun came out, and I finally went out.  I've kept going out... but for how long? Now I'm in a place where meeting people is extremely hard. Sure getting one or two dates, no problem... but friends, sustained dating? When everyone's so busy, and the "new person smell" wears off so quickly... how do you do it? How do I keep away from the easy "on-line" social outlet?

I just have to keep pushing, keep looking for opportunities. Find clubs, organizations, sports. Something!

I have another issue to conquer. I have a hard time going out by myself because I feel like if I'm not with someone, what's the point? Why go out if I have no one to share the experience with. No, I *need* to go out because *need* to let the opportunities  happen to meet other people. Even if it's only a 5 minute conversation. A quick nod to a stranger, a small conversation about what they're doing.  I need to grow as a person! I'm just a bit unmotivated! I need to turn this energy of going out in to that, NOT back to WoW.

I'm not banning myself from playing WoW. I'm not setting myself up for a failure. If I have time to kill and I feel like playing, I'll play. But the goal is to not cut myself short opportunities. To get out, and live the life I missed from either, being obese (back when I was) or playing video games.

I do want to say, I have hundreds of good memories of people I've met on line.  A few of them I wouldn't trade for anything. As a person I have grown and been exposed to so many different ideas that have been both inspiring and life changing.  It's the difference between being a positive influence and being destructive.

Balance.... balance...
