---
author: Roxxi
comments: true
date: 2009-10-23 04:05:24+00:00
layout: post
slug: kyot-ired
title: Kyot-ired
wordpress_id: 549
---

We slept in quite a bit on Thursday. I think all the traveling was catching up to us.  

According to a guide Tristan had read, we needed to be at the parade route early in order to get a spot where we could see. I think around this time, spending a week with someone with no break was starting to catch up to me.  I definitely hit a point of frustration yesterday, which prompted me to get us signed up for the two tours.  I think it had less to do with Tristan personally, and more the lack of alone time in combination with the general indecisiveness we had.  There were somethings we knew we wanted to do, but Kyoto has a lot to see, over 2000 shrines and temples just in the city.  We did come to Kyoto during this part of our trip because we knew this festival was going on, and we really wanted to see a cultural festival- but I just needed a break.

Anyhow, we made it up to the parade route, on our way running into a middle aged Australian man who was here on holiday.  We talked a little bit and found out that he was headed to the parade too (although, everyone was, judging by how packed the train was). We started talking with him, and the three of us stuck together until we found a spot to watch the parade proceed.  We didn't really know what the parade was about (we had no idea it was a precursor to a fire festival held at a village in a near by town up in the mountains- one of the people we met at the parade filled us in on that), but we did know that it was supposed going to be demonstrating literally hundreds of period costumes and dress.  Sounded like a great photo opportunity.

As the parade finally came down the street, there was the traditional banner procession, then came a line of people, almost single file, often in twos or threes one after another.  Lots of people dressed like nobles, squires, samurai, all bearing seals and sashes in a very period style, some were on horse, being guided or proceeded by their peasantry, and sometimes that peasantry was carrying their riches on poles, and what not.  Seemed interesting… but the more interesting part (at least to me and the Australian guy) was that it was practically silent. There was no music. And there was no excitement. Sure, the parade members waved, but for the most part, that was it. Just people, walking in a line, dressed up in ornate, yet monotonically ornate- that is to say, they were all equally ornate, which, mixed with the lack of any kind of excitement or music, was rather dull as they trudged by.  

[Parade pictures]

After the first hour, I definitely had my fill of it.  It all looked the same and was boring- or at least, not to my expectations. This wasn't a celebration, this was a line. There was no climactic point. I told Tristan that I think I've had enough of this, and I wanted to go wander else where.  Tristan didn't like the idea of us splitting up, but I really needed time alone, and staying for this was NOT worth it to me. (It seemed he rather enjoyed it, I guess he had better expectations than I.) He wanted to stay, however, and so, for the first time on our trip, we split up.

As I mentioned earlier, we had heard there was a bigger festival up in the mountains, and that we should be there around 8.  We decided to split up for just 3 hours, and meet up at Nijo castle a bit later (which was down town).  So I left. I wanted to go and visit the International Manga Museum, but before heading there, though, there was what appeared to be a large park in front of us on the parade route.  I thought I'd go see what was in there, since that was the origin of the parade route. Maybe there'd be more going on in there?

I wandered in, finding an annoyingly heavily gravely path that was rather annoying to walk on.  The "park" was slightly picturesque, but not very. I took a few pictures here and there, of some cute little streams and what not, but eh, I just wasn't feeling it. The only thing worth seeing were some cute tourists from somewhere in Europe. The only thing happening at the beginning of the parade route was an announcer announcing the various entrants in the parade. Might have made it more enjoyable, except it was all in Japanese, so we wouldn't have understood anyway. After spending about 30 minutes there, I decided to head to Nijo Castle since the International Manga Museum was only 2 blocks from there.

[Park pictures]

Some people in the crowd I had talked to made it sound like Nijo castle was a short walk away and that I shouldn't need to take the bus. It turned out it was nearly a 40 minute walk. Don't get me wrong, it was nice, but it ate a big chunk of my time, and I really wanted to go to the international manga museum.

I got to Nijo, and thought about going inside the castle, then I remembered we'd be touring it tomorrow, so I decided to take some pictures of the outside of the moat surrounding it. It was rather pretty, I think.

[Nijo pictures]

I then took the subway over to the IMM. At this point, I'd be able to spend all of 50 minutes inside before having to come back. I figure I may as well because our schedule didn't really give us time to head here again as it was.  I got to the museum, and it was really awesome! A lot of the stuff inside was Japanese Manga, but that's to be expected. The had small sets of manga written in various languages, some authored by people from the various countries. It was really interesting. I tried reading some in spanish, sadly my vocabulary had shrunk too much that I could only understand it because of the pictures. I then spent a good 25 minutes reading Ouran Host Club in english.  It was great :) I was having a good time! 

They had a walk way with various manga characters drawn through time, from 1950s to today so you could see how the art and character designs changed across time.  What was more cool was that the IMM was filled with people of all ages, mostly adults, several people old enough to be my grand father.  It was pretty cool seeing enjoyment of manga span so many generations.  

I was down to my last 15 minutes when I finally looked around. I got upstairs and started looking at the exhibits explaining the history and development of manga back in the late 1890s. It was really interesting, but sadly my phone rang. The timer I had set said it was time to go, so I had to go.  I resolved that I'd tell Tristan how great it was, and bring him back.  Sadly, that's not what happened.

I ran to the subway and quickly took the train two stops back to where I said I'd meet Tristan. I saw him from across the street, and when the light turned green to cross, I motioned to him to come over (with the intent to get back to the museum), but instead he shook his head and motioned for me to go over there. So I crossed the street and he turned and started walking hurriedly away.  I asked what was up, and he said we had to leave for the festival, now! Wait… I thought that festival started at 8 pm. Apparently he read that you had to get there early and that the recommended time to leave was 4 or 5 PM because it'd be hard to get a good spot. Damn! So much for the IMM -_-*  Deep down I really didn't want to go to the festival. I didn't really know why, but I was having a really good time at the IMM, and I had this sinking feeling that I shouldn't go to the festival, but after all the indecision, Tristan was so focused on getting there, I got the impression he really wanted to go, and I didn't want to be a wet blanket…

So we took bus to bus to get to the rail station we needed to be at. Oh my god, there were SO many people! It was insane!  We had to take a train out north of Kyoto in to the mountains to the town where that festival was. The scenery around the train the whole way up was amazing, but the experience getting up there was god awful. Everyone was going to this festival. The train was packed to the max, more packed than any of the trains in Tokyo had been. At least in Tokyo, you'd get to a major stop and everyone would get off, so you'd have relief at some point. On this train, however, since everyone was going to the festival, and the festival was the last stop, there was no relief. It was a 40 minute ride up to the mountain, and we stopped at every stop, so that more people could get on. There was no where to sit down, and I was tired from all the walking I had already done that day. In fact, at not point had I sat down since we left. Not only that but the BO on the train was so intense, it was practically unbearable. Needless to say, I was NOT in a good mood at this point. Not only did I have a feeling I didn't want to go to this, but it was being confirmed.  But, this was just the train, I told myself, and it's to be expected going to a festival like this. So I just bit my tongue and did the best I could.

Again, the scenery outside the train was refreshing.

So we got to the town, and man, there were a ton of people there! We were both starving, but we had a really hard time finding food. Odd, I thought, considering this was a festival… I'd think there'd be a lot of food vendors here. We finally found something to eat, then Tristan wanted to get a spot on the side lines before the parade started. It was about 5:30 PM at this point. So we found a spot and stood there, just down the hill from the shrine that was at the top, where it seemed like most of the activity would be coming from. I figured they'd start at 6. So we stood there for a half hour… nothing seemed to happen. We were surrounded by policemen who kept saying, "please keep the street clear" over and over in to bull horns. Around 6:15 they started putting caution tape up in front of us.  Ok, I thought, they're clearing the streets, it should start soon, maybe by 6:30.  All this time, we were standing there, not moving, now we had people moving up the hill that we were standing on, behind us, constantly pushing on us.  The police were then yelling for us to move up to leave a walking path behind us for the people going up the hill.  Regardless, I was getting pushed and shoved, non stop from this point on. They eventually put tape up behind us, but that didn't stop any of the pushing, since I was on the back edge of it. I told Tristan if this doesn't start by 7, I'm going home. I was tired of hearing the police yell in bull horns, I was tired of standing, I was tired of being in a crowd with a million people around me, standing so tightly that I couldn't move. I hated having to say that, but I was honestly completely miserable. No matter what happened now, I was not going to enjoy it. (I thought to myself, I guess this is how Bryan must feel at times.) I had to suppress every urge to forcefully push people back who kept pushing on me. It was just all too maddening. And for what?

Around 7 something started to happen. They started burning bushes up and down the street. The smoke was meant to purify the spirits of something or another. All it did was make us cough. Fortunately it didn't last too long, but it took them a half hour to light all the fires. Again, I'm still getting pushed, with police yelling in to bull horns all around me. Then little kids start walking up and down the street with their parents, chanting "San-rei, san-ryo" which means "festival, great festival." "How ironic," I thought, since this wasn't all that great. At the best, it was cute, but again, I was in no mood to enjoy it. I tried my best to take all the pictures I could, but it was dark, and with the crowds pushing and noise, it was driving me crazy. As the festival would go on, the torches would slowly get bigger and bigger. 

Eventually it was 8 o'clock, and nothing else happened just more torches, and I just hit my limit. I said I was leaving, and that was that.  When I had said it earlier, at 7, I discovered we were taped in, so I couldn't get out, and since things were starting, I had decided to give it a try- but, once I saw that this was all it was (and later I verified that that was all it was) I just had to leave.  I think around 8 Tristan was tired and he said he was coming too (where as at 7, he simply said, "see you back there" (which I was content with. Going alone would be a relief in and of itself). I finally broke out of the crowd, and we found out that we couldn't go down the hill back to the train station, we had to follow that endless crowd of pushing people ALL THE WAY AROUND THE TOWN.  That's when we realized had we not stood there for 2 hours we would've seen what there was to be seen (which was just more torches) and could've left a LOT sooner! Arg! The climax of the whole festival (when they get tired of carrying around huge torches and chanting) was to bring out a shrine and open it.  The end. UGH! Didn't want to stay for that.  

So, it took us 20 minutes to get all the way around, all the while hearing the damn cops yelling in their awful bullhorns. I was so maddened. We didn't get on to the train until 9 PM, again, filled with people, hot, completely compressed, filled with BO, and no where to sit. I just bit my tongue and tried to shut everything off. It was more than I could bare. At this point I knew: today was the worst day of this whole trip. 

When we got to the station, and were finally free Tristan asked me what I wanted to do. I was burning up underneath, "how could you ask me this, now!" As though he wanted to do something else. "Why should this be my responsibility?" The whole "not being able to be apart" thing really got to me, and really made me feel trapped and frustrated. A week in to this and I really hadn't had a moment alone. This afternoon was so rushed that while I was alone, I didn't get to unwind. I just was at a total loss for words. I didn't know what to say. Honestly, now, I don't remember what I said.  We looked for the bus to get us back to the Ryokan, where we decided to spend another night. At least it'd be quiet.

I said I was done with people, and honestly, I was. I didn't want to be around anyone anymore. On the bus, however, I saw two missionaries as I got on. That tickled me a bit.  They were sitting next to an Australian couple who started talking to them. One of them said he'd only been here a week, and explained what he was here doing.  At some point I chimed in that my brother came here on his mission, and that if he could do it, you could do it. He then asked if I was a member, and I glibly said, "no, but everyone else in my family is, just not me." I think I was looking for a fight (or at least a theological debate). To blow off some steam. Sadly, he didn't bite.  The Australian guy noticed my shoes (Keens) and we started talking about hiking, and how him and his girlfriend hiked from the 1st to the 6th station of Mt. Fuji in 4.5 hours.  Dang! I thought. I wish we had done that! Bleh.  We then started talking about how amazing the rail system was in Japan, and this cute girl from NY jumped in to our conversation. It was nice talking to these people for some reason. At the least, they weren't pushing on me. As the conversation went on, I gave the NY girl a link to our wiki to get some travel information off it. She was pretty eager for it.  By the end of the bus trip my attitude had definitely improved. I don't know what it was about this whole day and why I was so miserable, but at least, for a brief moment I had some relief.

After getting back to the station, Tristan and I grabbed a quick fast food dinner, and headed back to the Ryokan to write and go to bed.

What a terrible day.

By the end, I started feeling like I was "done" with Japan. Maybe 15 days was too much. Maybe we really should've made more plans ahead of time. We definitely should've brought a guide book to help us focus more, I should've had my own phrase book, so I wouldn't have had to rely on Tristan's so much, and so that we'd have an easier time splitting up, and next time, I'll definitely bring my own towel.

___

As a side note, Kyoto is waaaay more friendly to first time foreigners than Tokyo. Almost every bus/train/sign in the city is in english and japanese, so it's totally doable to wander around alone. There are also tourists everywhere, so it's easy to ask for help and meet people. It's also not nearly as sprawling; a lot more digestible. I think it's natural to feel overwhelmed in Tokyo, but in Kyoto it's not *nearly* as hard, so don't be discouraged by Tokyo.

