---
author: Roxxi
comments: true
date: 2009-10-22 05:52:54+00:00
layout: post
slug: droppin-the-kizash-in-kyoto-and-getting-down-with-the-gs-in-gion
title: Droppin' the Kizash in Kyoto and Getting down with the G's in Gion
wordpress_id: 429
categories:
- '... the Best of Times'
- It was ...
- Japan
- Travel
---

Today started out as quite an early morning this morning! We had quite the trip ahead of us to get from Kawaguchiko to Kyoto.  We had to take a 1 hour bus trip (that ended up being 1.5 hours) to a 30 minute train ride, to a 4 minute train ride (that ended up being delayed 15 minutes), to a 160 minute Shinkansen ride to finally arrive in Kyoto by 12:40 so that we could make it to our scheduled tour of the Imperial Palace by 1:50.

Because of the first delay on the bus, we barely made it to our first train with moments to spare. Our next train was delayed 15 minutes, such that we missed the Shinkansen literally by seconds. I saw the doors close as Tristan was running up the terminal.  Really a buzz kill because we missed our Imperial Palace tour. We had to be there by 1:50 and the train we were about to get on wouldn't come again for another hour. Totally sucked.

We were pretty quiet on the train; I think down about our trip.  When we finally made it to Kyoto, I think Tristan was pretty disappointed to have missed the tour. He made a huge effort the night before to figure out a route so that we could get there on time, and we totally fell flat.  You had to get permission for the Imperial Palace tour a week or so ahead of time, so there was no way we could get permission now. Getting lost coming out the wrong side of the train station, again, once we arrived, didn't make us feel any better. For me, personally, I was starting to get burned out of all of the culture shock stuff. I get it Toto, we're not in Kansas anymore.

Not wanting to get complacent again, we went to the tourist information center right away this time. After our luke warm experience in Tokyo where we didn't really know what we were doing, we wanted to make sure we didn't drop the ball again.  We got a city map, bus instructions and map, tourist spot guide, tour brochure- everything we'd need all at once.  We then went, and dropped our luggage off at our hostel, which, again, we had trouble finding. They didn't speak much, if any, english here (we're at a Ryokan again), but they are extremely friendly! They let us leave our luggage there, and we left, not to return until the evening.

This time, not letting us get complacent, I made us sit and go through the tourist spots, and the tour guide and rank what we want to see on a 0-2 modal basis (0 is MUST, 1 should, 2 could)

We spent an hour looking at everything and deciding. We found a day tour of Kyoto that would get us back inside the imperial palace, even though we missed our time. We also picked a half day tour of Nara, that hit the big things. It cost us an arm and a leg for both tours (¥18,500 each) but now we knew we were going to see everything that we needed to see! We both really started feeling a lot better after that! Finally we had wind in our sails again!

We decided that we were going to go to Gion tonight, which is the district in Kyoto that has the traditional style Japanese city atmosphere going, complete with real life Geisha and everything! We wandered around, looking for the hall where we could watch a show exemplifying the history of various Japanese arts that came from, or were heavily standardized in Kyoto. After we finally found the hall (again, being completely lost, but getting a great chance to admire the traditional city scape and day to day lives as we walked passed people's houses, hearing sounds coming out), we headed off to find dinner before the show started.  We passed one of those classic looking Japanese restaurants. Their meals started at about $45 for tempura, and went up from there. Tristan was hesitant at first to go in, but I was tired of eating the ¥500 bowls of noodles. I wanted to try something more exciting.  We went in and were given the choice of sitting at regular tables or traditional tatami seating. We chose the latter, of course. We then went over the concise menu. I really have to say, I love the fact that places here don't serve everything. I love that they do what they do well, and only serve that, instead of a menu that's huge, and tenuous, and bland and soulless. We decided to get shabu-shabu for 2 (japanese hotpot) at a price tag of about $68,000 each, and additionally a small bottle of sake for each of us (He wanted dry, I wanted sweet).  After they took our order, a man came in and sat down at the table next to us.  We had recognized him from the bus we took to get to Gion from the station. He was alone then, and I figured he'd be alone now, so I asked him if he would like to eat with us. We didn't know his name, but on the bus, he told us we should buy a day bus pass because it was cheaper. Seemed like a good enough reason to invite him to eat with us any way. It was rather funny, when he moved over, the waitresses (who barely spoke english, but still did a pretty good job with what they knew and were sweet as could be), asked if he was our friend. We hesitated for a moment, and just nodded yes to save an explanation, and they all started saying "Sugoi! (Amazing)" as if we had happen to run in to our friend accidentally in their restaurant.  It was pretty funny and cute :)

So he joined us. His name is Mauricio.  He had a rather interesting story- he is a software developer from Mexico City, who got a job in mathematical models with Mitsubishi in London, where him and his family have been living for the last few years.  About 6 months ago, they asked him to go to Tokyo, and, since he didn't really love London, he was happy to accept. So he had been here for 6 months, and this week, his parents came to visit from Mexico City, so his whole family was sight seeing.  We asked where they were tonight, and he said they were relaxing at the hotel, and he wanted to come out to walk around some and enjoy it himself.

Anyway, as we were talking and eating, another couple came and sat at the table that he was previously occupying. Rita and Roy, as we found out later, who were visiting for a conference regarding designing control systems for large scale physics experiments (e.g. particle accelerators). Rita was a software developer, who was here for the conference, which was in Kobe, and Roy was a hardware developer who was just her husband :)  They had finished the conference and were going around touring before they headed back on saturday. It turns out they were from Tracy, and joined in our conversation when they heard they were from the bay area.

All of us had a great time talking, and Mauricio gave us endless advice of things to see in Tokyo, so much so that between him and Duilia from the nights before, Tristan and I are probably going to heavily revisit Tokyo and do it right this time. (Not that we did it wrong, we just didn't do it as well as we might have).

So, all this talk about people, what about the food we just shelled out $78 for? (The bill in the end was almost $90 for each of us) Well, the main course was just like mongolian hotpot, except some of the vegetables were different, and the broth was just hot water.  Rather than cook it in a flavored broth, we brought the cooked items from the pot and dipped them in a soup base that we flavored with spicy radish and sweet onions, and of course rice. Mmmm, it was really good!  Before the main course though, we had a small plate of sashimi, 3 kinds (I still don't like squid :-( ), a plate that had a collection of tasty little completely indescribable, immaculately made bites of goodness, and a filled ricey-gluteny-yummy-stuffed thing, also, no idea what it was, but tasty! It was a lovely meal! Between the company and the food and the fun with the waitresses, it was totally fantastic and worth every penny!

Before we finished our meal, Rita and Roy left to see if they could get in to the earlier cultural arts show (since there were two showings) while we continued to hit up Mauricio for more information about Tokyo. After finally parting ways, we headed down to the Gion Corner (the place where the cultural show was going on), and discovered Rita and Roy at the front of the line to buy tickets, which hadn't gone on sale yet (they started selling them 20 minutes before the show started).  We went up and asked about the process, and they informed us they hadn't bought tickets yet.  So, we went to the back of the line, and Rita came running back and asked if we wanted her to buy tickets for us.  Hooray! What a darling! We gave her some money, and 5 minutes later, she ran back and told us to come up! The one person in front of them bought 15 tickets, and brought up his group of 15 to cut in front of everyone (at which a LOT of people were pissed) so she ran back to get us, because if it was ok for them, it would be ok for us!  As such, we got pretty good seating (though at the dismay of some german girl behind me, who made a point to elbow me as she dashed by *eye roll*), and watched a great show, explaining the various art styles that came out of Kyoto, and watched demonstrations of them.

The show (and I highly recommend the show at Gion Corner), covered the Tea Ceremony and the history of Tea, Koto music (which is the HUGE 13 stringed instrument that the stereotypical Japanese music is played on), Flower Arrangement (which is amazing to watch, oddly enough), Gagaku (which was apparently a music and dance combination only shown in the royal courts), Kyogen (ancient comic play), Kyomai performed by Maiko (Kyoto Geishas in training) and Bunraku (puppet plays) where the puppets move really as if they are human! (Post all the pictures and videos here). For ¥3150, it was totally worth it, and during the whole show you could take all the pictures you wanted to, which was great!

After the show we parted ways with Rita and Roy, wishing them well, and thanking them once again, and started wandering around Gion. There's a river running along side of the district, and there was a sand bar like thing in the center of the river, running for a mile or two in it.  Tristan and I decided to walk down since it was a nice night, and just enjoy looking in to all the people's houses, and ryokans, and cafes that were located along the river, and watching all the couples sitting with each other enjoying the romantic view, etc etc.  It was a great walk, very relaxing, and filled with lots of nice texture with respect to the ground and views.  One part was rather funny where couples were all sitting evenly spaced so perfectly that you'd think it was planned. Almost every couple was exactly 3 meters apart from the one before it. What a strange phenomena.  We made it to the end of the sand bar, and turned back, deciding we should probably head back to the ryokan since they close their doors at 11:30.

We had a great walk through the down town of one of Kyoto's districts, seeing everything all lighted up, TONS of people everywhere, of all ages.  It's amazing, no matter where you are in Japan, be it tiny village or big city, you feel totally safe being out at night. I don't even feel that way going 30 feet outside of my house in South City and we live in a pretty safe neighborhood. Even in Lake Forest! It really is amazing.

When we got back to the hostel, the super sweet attendant greeted us, and said "Present" and handed us two adorably wrapped gift bags, and two book rather pretty bookmarks! Kawaii!!! >.< Almost too much! She then took us in the elevator up to our rooms, opened the door for us where we found all of our luggage already delivered in a cute little ryokan room. It was so nice!

Even though today started out in not such a great way, it probably couldn't have ended any better :) And for the first time in a few nights, I'm looking forward to the next couple days here :) I think we may have hit our stride!
