---
author: Roxxi
comments: true
date: 2010-03-12 15:00:29+00:00
layout: post
slug: cash-only
title: Cash only
wordpress_id: 565
tags:
- new york
- Travel
---

After landing at 7:45 I made it to the [hotel](http://broadwayhotelnyc.com) at 10 am. It probably would've been a good idea to look up how to get to the hotel before I got here- but random guessing and last months deriving seemed to have served me well. 

It didn't help that there was no real explanation about how to get to the subway from the airport. I had vaguely remembered something about Air train, but there were no signs to it anywhere, until after wandering away from baggage claim. Once up there, there was no indication of how to get to the subway or even that there were stations. Luckily there was an attendant up there who told me which train to get on to get to the Jamaica station- which is unshockingly not indicative of a subway. 

So I got on the train and made it to the station where I discovered you have to pay after getting off, and it's cash only :-/. good thing there was an out of system ATM placed right there- preying on tourists no doubt- but that's what I get for never carrying cash. I paid my $5 to get out, and bought a $27 week subway pass. It probably was a ripoff, but I figured it'd be useful enough to take a gamble on. 

Next I had to figure out which subway to get on- oops, I probably should've looked at the map before I paid my $5 to leave the airtrain station. :p Ah an information booth to my rescue! Right? Wrong! The information booth has information about AirTrain, NOT the subway. Great.  Worthless. Well, I know I gotta take the subway, so I just decide to follow the signs. Upon getting there I see there are three lines- two are letters that are brownish in color, one that is blue.  I couldn't find a map anywhere, and, as I'd soon find out, AT&T; doesn't work anywhere on or in a subway or subway station.  I had to guess, and I figured since there was one blue one that that one was probably the one that should be used.  Worst case, I'd just come back.

Luckily, on the train, there was a map! Yay! But I couldn't read it because the girl infront of me was blocking it! Boo! I figured the train would be far enough away from the city that I'd have some time, and I saw her pointing at the route we seemed to be on, and I saw it was going to Manhattan, so I figured I was safe for now.  It was quiet as hell in the car. I guess at 8 AM on friday morning, everyone was heading to work, so, there weren't much in the way of smiling faces around me.  Following some advice, I just didn't make eye contact with anyone and waited until I could examine the route map and figure out what I'd need to do.

Thank goodness I had all the practice reading maps in Japan. I quickly deciphered the difference between express and non-express trains, and found the location of the place I needed to head towards. I only ended up missing one transfer stop, and, an hour and a half later, I made it to the Hostel.

